YouTube’s biggest star was on the Late Show and the segment was actually pretty good.

Really, I’d say that Colbert gave Jimmy Kimmel a master class in how to cover the phenomenon that is Let’s Plays. Going in, Colbert immediately poked fun at television, calling it a “steam-powered medium”—and Pewdiepie talked about how, personally, he never actually watches TV. This of course is not uncommon for people who are as young as Pewdiepie, but it was refreshing to acknowledge this reality without berating it. Colbert also gave props to Pewdiepie’s immense success. Contrast that with Kimmel’s awful and controversial coverage of YouTube, where he said things like “we should all be ashamed of themselves for failing as parents” when describing people who choose to watch other people play video games online. Kimmel totally came off as an out-of-touch dude who didn’t get YouTube but was intent on making fun of it and the people who enjoy it anyway. Colbert on the other hand not only did his homework, he sounded like he had respect for YouTubers and what they do. It’s an approach that requires confidence.

“I want to thank the internet for allowing their emperor to be here for the evening,” Colbert joked.

Colbert pulled all of this off…while still poking fun at YouTube, too. Because lets face it: being able to yell at video games and get paid is a pretty ridiculous concept. Pewdiepie said Let’s Plays allowed people to pretend they were sitting on a couch with a friend, and Colbert joked that the difference was that they would never get the controller. Kimmel’s schtick pointed out the very same thing, but Colbert managed to hit that note without also shitting on the audience. It didn’t feel mean. It was just funny. I could laugh along, even if Colbert was poking fun at people like me.

The key here was in how Colbert approached the entire thing. There was one point, for example, where he showed a clip of Pewdiepie hooting and hollering at game footage. It would have been really easy to talk down to Pewdiepie then and there. Instead the footage spoke for itself. Maybe you think it’s awesome. Maybe you think it’s ridiculous. Its up for you to decide. Colbert didn’t tell you how to feel, he just joked that, if Pewdiepie plays games for a living, then what is he supposed to do for fun?

You can watch some of the segment in the clip below—it’s not the entire thing that aired last night, but at the very least you’ll hear Pewdiepie talk about Swedish swear words. Heh. 


Right now, the top game on the App Store stars none other than Felix Kjellberg. I took the game for a spin, and here’s what I found.

PewDiePie: Legend of the Brofist is a $4.99 mobile game where the big bad villain is...a barrel. Yes, you read that right. An evil barrel. To the average person, this might seem ridiculous. To fans, it will make total sense: Barrels have their very own Pewdiepie Wiki page,which explains how this inanimate object turned into the blonde YouTuber’s “arch-nemesis” after playing through horror game Amnesia. Of course barrels make an appearance during the game, even if the result is pretty damn silly:

Really, I imagine that most of the game is aimed at hardcore Pewdiepie fans to begin with. They’re the ones who will understand the inside jokes. They’re the ones who will appreciate the cameos by other YouTube stars. For the rest of us, though, Brofist is a tougher sell.

If you watch gaming YouTube videos, you’re probably familiar with that certain type of wacky video game that makes for great footage, regardless of what the commentator is actually saying. “YouTube fodder,” some (unfairly) call it. We’re talking stuff like Goat Simulator, Surgeon Simulator, physics games, and so on. We see games like this so often, they almost make their goofy charm look effortless. One of the most common criticisms I’ve seen is that many games are now engineered to look great while highlighted by a YouTuber, and in doing so, don’t need to actually be good in order to be popular. I don’t think this cynicism is warranted, and Pewdiepie’s very own game is proof of that. It tries to capture the magic of certain YouTube famous funny games, but can’t quite get there.

There’s a certain point in the footage above, for example, where Pewdiepie is about to get wrecked by the eviiiiil barrel. In comes Markiplier to save the day with a fighter jet that he says he bought on the internet. OK, so far, kind of silly, but not that bad. Then you have to play through a shoot-em-up section where you’re killing barrels (sure), ducks (makes sense), rainbow farting unicorns (huh?), UFOs (why?) and giant Orcas (wut?). If there is a logic to that madness, I don’t know what it is. The game just kind of keeps going like this. Soon after the shoot-em-up section, you have to head to the North Pole because of reasons, and along the way you find a big-ass T-Rex. Because why not? I hate being this critical of something that’s clearly not supposed to be serious, or perhaps is meant more for kids, but here we are.

There is stuff to like here, don’t get me wrong. The pixel art is top-notch, and I appreciate the lack of in-app purchases, too. The platforming, while tough even on easy mode, feels pretty good on iOS; there’s a lot of weight to your jumps. I really love the inclusion of Pewdiepie’s pugs, which bravely fight alongside you—and sometimes even sacrifice themselves to keep you alive. Cute! But man. I can’t really get into the “lol so random” aspect of the game—instead of being funny, it just falls flat for me. Legend of the Brofist is a tryhard of a game. Not, of course, that it needs a stamp of approval from the likes of people like me. It’s gonna be on the charts just the same. That’s the power of the Pewdiepie fanbase for ya.